My name is James Rutter. 

I am 37 years old and live in Stonington, Maine. 

I went to undergrad for Electrical & Computer System Engineering, thinking that I would become an Audio Engineer but discovered and become obsessed with DIY electronics, like Arduinos. I moved away from audio engineering and music and into the world of digital fabrication and technology writ large. 

In university, I worked for a student-run makerspace, called M5, and help build tutorial projects, documentation, etc. Upon graduating, I had an opportunity to become an AmeriCorps VISTA working for a community arts organization with a budding makerspace program, AS220, and AS220 Labs. There I worked for about 4 years, and developed a robust makerspace/digital fabrication center (Fab Lab), interacted with the MIT / Fab Foundation network of Fab Labs, and worked with artists to use technology to make things. I got to learn a lot about design and fabrication, and how to make physical things, not just electronics and code. Combining these skills allowed for a whole new world of projects and allowed me to tackle really exciting projects and collaborations. 

I was invited up to Haystack Mountain School of Crafts to be a technical assistant in the Lab for a summer program, and then was invited back to teach a series of community-based workshops during the winter with the local community. 

Eventually, I would go back to grad school, attending the University of Virginia Charlottesville, VA. I worked with Dr. Glen Bull in the K-12 Center for Advanced Manufacturing and the Make to Learn group. I developed educational kits that introducted digital fabrication and engineering into the formal K-12 curriculum. I worked with many of the local schools and teachers, piloting kits and projects. After about 5 years working here and studying, I would earn my Ph.D. in STEM Education (technically my degree was in the Curriculum & Instruction department, but it had originated in Instructional Technology and focused closely on STEM Education). 

In my final year, I was invited back up to Haystack to work for a summer program, running the high school internship for a session (two week program) and then was offered a job as the first-ever Fab Lab Coordinator for the school. I joined in 2019 and am still working there today, now Technology Director, I oversee not just the Fab Lab but the entirety of the school's technology systems and operations. While distinct form the world of digital fabrication and Fab Labs/makerspaces, my role as Technology Directory has allowed me to re-discover my passion for technology, and developing modern tools and solutions for our organization to help with operations and transition the organization that was primarily paper-driven/analog when I arrived, into a cloud-first modern operations and workflows. I've taken on several large-scale projects, both within the Fab Lab, developing new innovative programs, such as "Haystack Labs", our Fab Lab Residency program, and a robust set of community programs focused on STEAM education and empowring the local community with the tools of the Fab Lab. I am also trying to empower and improve the operations of the Organization by intergrating and adopting modern SaaS tools to build custo bespoke solutions. 

I have always been a maker and tinkerer. I've been building websites since I got my family had a dial-up internet connection and a computer in the house. Geopages, Dreamweaver, static HTML/CSS/JS, Wordpress, and now I've re-discovered the modern landscape of web development and have fallen in love with building for the browser. Browsers are so powerful nowadays, and we use them to run so much. I love loveraging the this to build things and see how it can be used to solve problems. 